README.md, before:

# DeepSeek Inference API

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19a41369-2346-4bc1-9b2f-bfec5e7fdc36)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d7f899e-e19e-43f5-8157-ea7c6c80dd41)

### Description

A FastAPI-based service for running inference with DeepSeek language models. This API provides a simple interface for text generation using DeepSeek's 7B model.

## Deploy DeepSeek-R1 on GCP Cloud Run!

### Why Cloud Run?

Cloud Run offers several advantages for deploying AI inference APIs, especially for early-stage projects and startups:

- **Pay-per-use pricing**: Only pay for actual compute time used, ideal for sporadic workloads
- **Auto-scaling**: Scales to zero when not in use, perfect for development and testing
- **Cost efficiency**: No need to maintain constantly running instances
- **Serverless**: Focus on code, not infrastructure
- **GPU support**: Access to T4/V100 GPUs without long-term commitments
- **Quick deployment**: From code to production in minutes

### Benefits for Early-Stage Projects

1. **Cost Optimization**

   - Zero cost when the service is idle
   - Perfect for development and testing phases
   - No minimum monthly commitments

2. **Development Flexibility**

   - Easy A/B testing of different models
   - Quick iteration and deployment
   - Simple rollback capabilities

3. **Security & Control**

   - Self-hosted solution reduces dependency on third-party services
   - Protection against service disruptions
   - Full control over model versions and updates

4. **Scalability**
   - Handles traffic spikes automatically
   - Scales down to zero during quiet periods
   - No infrastructure management overhead

## Features

- FastAPI-based REST API
- Support for DeepSeek models
- Environment-based configuration
- Token-based authentication with Hugging Face
- Docker support for containerization
- GPU acceleration support

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Hugging Face account and API token
- GPU support (recommended)
- pip or another Python package manager

### Cost Optimization Tips

1. **Set Concurrency**

   - Adjust request concurrency to optimize resource usage
   - Example: `--concurrency 80`

2. **Memory/CPU Allocation**

   - Start with minimal resources
   - Scale up based on actual usage patterns

3. **Monitoring**
   - Use Cloud Monitoring to track usage
   - Set up alerts for unusual patterns

## Installation

1. Clone or Fork the repository

## Usage

```python

# set up env
python3 -m venv venv

# activate the python environment
source venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# run the FastAPI application (development)
uvicorn src.main:app --reload --port 8000

```

## Running Docker

```bash

# Build with Hugging Face token
docker build -t deepseek-inference-api .

# Run
docker run \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  deepseek-inference-api

```

### Deploy via the GCP CLI

Deploy to Google Cloud Run with GPU Support

```bash

gcloud run deploy deepseek-service \
    --source . \
    --region us-central1 \
    --platform managed \
    --gpu \
    --memory 16Gi \
    --cpu 4 \
    --allow-unauthenticated \
    --command "uvicorn src.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT"

```

## Running Tests

Simply run pytest to run the unit & integration tests.

```bash

pytest

```

Commit message:

feat: update service for build time and use cloudbuild file

README.md, after:

# DeepSeek Inference API

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19a41369-2346-4bc1-9b2f-bfec5e7fdc36)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d7f899e-e19e-43f5-8157-ea7c6c80dd41)

### Description

A FastAPI-based service for running inference with DeepSeek language models. This API provides a simple interface for text generation using DeepSeek's 7B model.

## Deploy DeepSeek-R1 on GCP Cloud Run!

### Why Cloud Run?

Cloud Run offers several advantages for deploying AI inference APIs, especially for early-stage projects and startups:

- **Pay-per-use pricing**: Only pay for actual compute time used, ideal for sporadic workloads
- **Auto-scaling**: Scales to zero when not in use, perfect for development and testing
- **Cost efficiency**: No need to maintain constantly running instances
- **Serverless**: Focus on code, not infrastructure
- **GPU support**: Access to T4/V100 GPUs without long-term commitments
- **Quick deployment**: From code to production in minutes

### Benefits for Early-Stage Projects

1. **Cost Optimization**

   - Zero cost when the service is idle
   - Perfect for development and testing phases
   - No minimum monthly commitments

2. **Development Flexibility**

   - Easy A/B testing of different models
   - Quick iteration and deployment
   - Simple rollback capabilities

3. **Security & Control**

   - Self-hosted solution reduces dependency on third-party services
   - Protection against service disruptions
   - Full control over model versions and updates

4. **Scalability**
   - Handles traffic spikes automatically
   - Scales down to zero during quiet periods
   - No infrastructure management overhead

## Features

- FastAPI-based REST API
- Support for DeepSeek models
- Environment-based configuration
- Token-based authentication with Hugging Face
- Docker support for containerization
- GPU acceleration support

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Hugging Face account and API token
- GPU support (recommended)
- pip or another Python package manager

### Cost Optimization Tips

1. **Set Concurrency**

   - Adjust request concurrency to optimize resource usage
   - Example: `--concurrency 80`

2. **Memory/CPU Allocation**

   - Start with minimal resources
   - Scale up based on actual usage patterns

3. **Monitoring**
   - Use Cloud Monitoring to track usage
   - Set up alerts for unusual patterns

## Download the model During Build time rather than at runtime

This approach:

- Downloads model during build time
- Caches the model in the image
- Uses local files at runtime
- No need for token at runtime
- Faster container startup

Benefits:

- Faster cold starts
- No runtime downloads
- More reliable
- Works in airgapped environments
- Better for production
- The tradeoff is a larger container image, but the runtime benefits usually outweigh this.

## Installation

1. Clone or Fork the repository

## Usage

```python

# set up env
python3 -m venv venv

# activate the python environment
source venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# run the FastAPI application (development)
uvicorn src.main:app --reload --port 8000

```

## Running Docker

```bash

# Build with Hugging Face token
docker build \
  --build-arg HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN=${HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN} \
  -t deepseek-inference-api .

# Or directly with environment variable
docker run \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN=$HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN \
  deepseek-inference-api

```

### Deploy via the GCP CLI

Deploy to Google Cloud Run with GPU Support

```bash

gcloud run deploy deepseek-service \
    --source . \
    --region us-central1 \
    --platform managed \
    --gpu \
    --memory 16Gi \
    --cpu 4 \
    --allow-unauthenticated \
    --set-env-vars="HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN=${HUGGINGFACE_TOKEN}" \
    --command "uvicorn src.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT"

```

## Running Tests

Simply run pytest to run the unit & integration tests.

```bash

pytest

```
